Alex was just saying the full scale of
the Capitals leftover food mountain can
be revealed this evening London tonight
has learned that we throw a 400,000
untouched apples and 750,000 slices of
bread every single day a one-third of
our food ends up in the bin that
generates millions of tons of food waste
every year and now top chefs are joining
a campaign to teach Londoners how to use
leftovers to make new meals Liz Wickham
has the story think of all the starving
children in Africa is what mums used to
say now what the overindulged population
of London leaves on its plate is not
only a moral but an environmental
disgrace it wouldn't be so bad if all
our leftovers ended up here in West
London at least once it gets to the
biggest composting site in all Europe
every scrap of food garden waste and
cardboard ends up truly recycled five
London boroughs send a steady stream of
trucks to disgorge their loads to a
waiting ballet of huge machines in only
five weeks it becomes fragrant compost
ready for the farmer and the gardener
alike many of us are already composting
but you can't put meat and bones on your
heap without encouraging rats and
pigeons this peculiar green cone does
take all that stuff and produces well
nothing this is a totally natural system
and all you're doing is creating the
ideal environment for the bugs and
everything else to munch their way
through the food and get rid of it it
produces no compost in fact everything
is converted to carbon dioxide and water
it suits Deborah's family down to the
ground there's lots of leftover food in
this house and I got tired of putting it
out in the wheelie bin tired of waiting
for the dustmen to turn up and bite you
know by which time the food got smelly
now all I do is walk up to my green cone
and tip it in one cause of food waste is
our slavish adherence to use by dates I
mean come on it's reasonable of course
to be told when to use meat or perhaps
fish by but can't we use our nose and
our eyes to judge when yogurt is off or
even keys today the mayor's food chair
got together with a chef in Kings Cross
to remind us of another
mother's did use up the leftovers
instead of throwing them away there are
things you can do so with bread that's a
bit stale you can you can turn that into
a pudding you can turn that into
something else you can do things with it
and again when something is pushing to
its sell-by date use it bristles to you
all Liz Wickham London tonight King's
Cross absolutely fascinating isn't it I
learned a lot from that did you what did
you never to accept a dinner invitation
from this Wickham a woman I have known
many years and love from the bottom of
my heart but you know those dates mean
something they do but not on the cheese
you were saying because it's meant to be
she's meant to go off but yeah we could
be Wickham serves yogurt yeah its Clint
loose right showbiz well London tonight
discovered